JUDY WOODRUFF: As I was
starting to say, one
clear challenge facing
Democrats and Republicans,
staying on message, when
the president can so quickly
stir up a new controversy.
So, will a shakeup in the
White House communications
team change all that?
Our Politics Monday duo is here
to weigh in, Amy Walter of The
Cook Political Report, Tamara
Keith of NPR.
But because you both were
sitting here as I was just
talking to Tom Perez, Tam, let's
start by talking about that.
What do you make of the
Democrats' effort now?
You hear him saying, we're
trying to get back to business
here, to go to appeal to voters
where they are.
TAMARA KEITH, National
Public Radio: Yes.
There was a struggle when I
covered the Clinton campaign
that they had, which he was sort
of getting at a little bit,
which is the thing where they
would want to talk about issues,
they would want to talk about
policy, they would want to
have an affirmative message,
and then Donald Trump
would do something and
they would just slip back
into being the opposition
to the other person who
is running for president.
And Democrats, I think,
struggle with that now in, you
know, are they the resistance
or are they for something?
And today was an effort to sort
of begin talking about what
they are for, at the same time
they're also talking about
what they're against still.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What
they're against.
Amy, can they do this?
AMY WALTER, The Cook
Political Report: Yes, I
think that's very doable.
The biggest challenge
for Democrats -- I think
we discussed this the
last time -- is that
they're the out party, so
they don't set the agenda.
The Republicans set the agenda.
They have to respond to
an agenda that's being set
by the Republican Party.
The other question is not just
so much about the message.
They can put together a
big messaging strategy,
but the messenger matters.
And in 2016, it was pretty
clear that the messenger that
Democrats had wasn't seen as
believable on a lot
of these issues.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hillary Clinton.
AMY WALTER: The Hillary Clinton
campaign had - - how many
reams of policy papers did you
go through, Tam, about
all of these issues?
TAMARA KEITH: I think there were
like 10,000 pages of policy...
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: It's not that she
didn't and the campaign didn't
have a plan on the economy.
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: I think it
was a million words.
But not like they didn't
have a plan for the economy.
It's that the messenger wasn't
seen as an effective messenger
or believable messenger.
So, the challenge, I think,
for Democrats right now going
into the midterm election
is finding candidates who
fit the districts, who have a
message that fits their specific
area, and that they're
believable, that
they're authentic.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, they say
they are -- they are saying
they recruiting more people to
run, at least at the
congressional level.
AMY WALTER: And they are.
They are.
At the congressional level.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you just
heard Tom Perez talking about
the state and local races, too.
AMY WALTER: It's always
the challenge and
the good and the bad.
You have tons of candidates
now on the Democratic
side either running or
talking about running.
That means big primaries and
that means you don't know who's
going to come out of a primary,
potentially the candidate
who doesn't fit as the right
messenger for that district.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meaning?
AMY WALTER: Meaning that you
get somebody in a district
that fits that district really
well, but loses in a 10- or
eight-way primary to a different
kind of Democratic candidate.
And there is not much that
the party can do about that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But they're
going to try, aren't they, Tam?
Because, right now, Tom Perez
cited this poll that shows most
people think all the Democrats
stand for or mostly what
they stand for is being
against Donald Trump.
TAMARA KEITH: And they have
been pretty loudly against
Donald Trump, but you know what?
It's a long way out from
that midterm election.
And there's a lot of time
to actually hear a message.
We don't even know who the
candidates are at this point,
and the candidates do matter,
as Amy says.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right,
speaking of Donald Trump,
Amy Walter, he chose
a new communications
director late last
week, as press secretary
and communications
director Sean Spicer has
now left the White House.
Anthony Scaramucci out on
all the weekend talk shows,
saying he loves this president,
and that they're going to have
a new approach, and they're
going to be positive and they're
going to do well.
AMY WALTER: The new approach
is a lot like the old approach,
which is, let Donald Trump
be Donald Trump.
You're not going
to manage Trump.
I'm not going to micromanage
his Twitter account.
What works best is when Donald
Trump works in the mode that
he likes to operate in, as
he did in the 2016 campaign.
The challenge, of course, with
any communications shakeup at
the White House is that we know
that there is one communications
director at the White House,
and his name is Donald
J. Trump.
It doesn't matter who else gets
a title over at the White House.
So, if you think what's been
working right now at the
White House has been effective
or what they're doing at the
White House has been effective,
then you're going to keep
- - you're going
to say that's OK.
But the fact is, their
legislative agenda is stalled.
That hasn't been working.
Letting Donald Trump be
Donald Trump hasn't helped
with his approval ratings.
They're stuck now
somewhere at 40 percent.
As we just discussed, it's
not helping in terms of
the 2018 midterm elections.
Democrats are energized,
Republicans not as energized.
The strategy is basically to
keep doing things the way that
we have been doing them, but,
right now, six months
in, it hasn't been
particularly effective.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How does this
look to somebody who covers the
White House all the time, Tam?
TAMARA KEITH: It looks like
there's a new person who, as
you said, he talks about loving
Donald Trump, about, you know
-- he definitely will be someone
who is a salesman for the
president's message.
But if you look at the Sunday
show appearances, you had Sarah
Huckabee Sanders, who is the
new press secretary,
saying one thing.
You had Scaramucci
saying another thing.
And then you had the president
of the United States tweeting
something somewhere in between.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we're still
trying to figure this out.
One of the things going
on in the tweeting,
Amy, is the president
continuing to criticize
or to say to Republicans,
you have got to come on
board with health care.
He's been tweeting about
it just a few minutes ago.
AMY WALTER: He's been
tweeting about it.
And then, of course, he stood
in the White House today and
basically put an ultimatum
in front of his party
that said, you are either
with me or you're not.
And the marker has
been put right there.
And so the choice for
Republicans tomorrow
is, are they going to
defy their president,
after saying -- after
he told them this will
be in defiance of me?
JUDY WOODRUFF: He said there
are going to be consequences
if we don't -- if you don't
support this.
TAMARA KEITH: Meanwhile, he
was talking about members of
his own party as they, as if it
was not -- as if they weren't
part of the same team.
And he was highly critical of
senators, saying, if you don't
do this, then you're breaking
a promise and there
are consequences.
And he made a tiny little
aside sort of indicating
that he wanted voters
to call their senators
or get in touch or make
it painful for their
senators, which is a turn.
It's him, the president,
publicly advocating for
a piece of legislation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just very
quickly, he's also putting
pressure on his own attorney
general, Amy, in just
a few seconds, saying
our beleaguered A.G.
If you're Jeff Sessions, what
are you thinking right now?
(LAUGHTER)
AMY WALTER: Right.
As with many people in the Trump
administration, if you work
for him, you have to know that
your job is always precarious.
There is no ultimate
loyalty if you work there.
And it's never clear whether
you're safe or not safe with
this president in your job at
the White House.
TAMARA KEITH: And Sessions
was at lunch at the
White House today and
didn't see the president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hmm.
Well, we will leave it
at that, Politics Monday.
Tamara Keith, Amy
Walter, thank you both.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome.